server_admin/topics/initialization.adoc, before:


== Server Initialization

After performing all the installation and configuration tasks defined in the link:{installguide_link}[{installguide_name}],
you will need to create an initial admin account.
{project_name} does not have any configured admin account out of the box.
This account will allow you to create an admin that can log into the _master_ realm's administration console so that
you can start creating realms, users and registering applications to be secured by {project_name}.

If your
server is accessible from `localhost`, you can boot it up and create this admin user by going to the http://localhost:8080/auth URL.

.Welcome Page
image:{project_images}/initial-welcome-page.png[]

Simply specify the username and password you want for this initial admin.

If you cannot access the server via a `localhost` address, or just want to provision {project_name} from the command line
you can do this with the `.../bin/add-user-keycloak` script.

.add-user-keycloak script
image:{project_images}/add-user-script.png[]

The parameters are a little different depending if you are using the standalone operation mode or domain operation mode.  For
standalone mode, here is how you use the script.

.Linux/Unix
[source]
----
$ .../bin/add-user-keycloak.sh -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

.Windows
[source]
----
> ...\bin\add-user-keycloak.bat -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

For domain mode, you have to point the script to one of your server hosts using the `-sc` switch.

.Linux/Unix
[source]
----
$ .../bin/add-user-keycloak.sh --sc domain/servers/server-one/configuration -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

.Windows
[source]
----
> ...\bin\add-user-keycloak.bat --sc domain/servers/server-one/configuration -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

Commit message:

Rework server initialization chapter
* KEYCLOAK-15941 Initial Rewording

* Post feedback wording changes

server_admin/topics/initialization.adoc, after:


== Creating the first administrator

After installing {project_name}, you need an administrator account that can act as a superuser with full permisions to manage all parts of {project_name}. With this account, you can log into the {project_name} Admin Console where you create realms and users and register applications that are secured by {project_name}. 

.Prerequisites

* Perform the installation and configuration tasks defined in the link:{installguide_link}[{installguide_name}] to the point that the {project_name} server is running.

=== Creating the account on the local host

If your server is accessible from `localhost`, perform these steps.

.Procedure

. In a web browser, go to the http://localhost:8080/auth URL.

. Supply a username and password that you can recall.
+
.Welcome Page
image:{project_images}/initial-welcome-page.png[Welcome Page]

=== Creating the account remotely

If you cannot access the server from a `localhost` address, or just want to start {project_name} from the command line, use the `.../bin/add-user-keycloak` script.

.add-user-keycloak script
image:{project_images}/add-user-script.png[]

The parameters are a little different depending if you are using the standalone operation mode or domain operation mode.  For standalone mode, here is how you use the script.

.Linux/Unix
[source]
----
$ .../bin/add-user-keycloak.sh -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

.Windows
[source]
----
> ...\bin\add-user-keycloak.bat -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

For domain mode, you have to point the script to one of your server hosts using the `-sc` switch.

.Linux/Unix
[source]
----
$ .../bin/add-user-keycloak.sh --sc domain/servers/server-one/configuration -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----

.Windows
[source]
----
> ...\bin\add-user-keycloak.bat --sc domain/servers/server-one/configuration -r master -u <username> -p <password>
----
