server_admin/topics/realms/email.adoc, before:

[[_email]]

= Email Settings

{project_name} sends emails to users to verify their email address, when they forget their passwords, or when an admin needs to
receive notifications about a server event.
To enable {project_name} to send emails you need to provide {project_name} with your SMTP server settings.
This is configured per realm.  Go to the `Realm Settings` left menu
item and click the `Email` tab.

.Email Tab
image:{project_images}/email-tab.png[]

Host::
  `Host` denotes the SMTP server hostname used for sending emails.

Port::
  `Port` denotes the SMTP server port.

From::
  `From` denotes the address used for the `From` SMTP-Header for the emails sent.

From Display Name::
  `From Display Name` allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain `From` email address will be displayed in email clients.

Reply To::
  `Reply To` denotes the address used for the `Reply-To` SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional). If not set the plain `From` email address will be used.

Reply To Display Name::
  `Reply To Display Name` allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain `Reply To` email address will be displayed.

Envelope From::
  `Envelope From` denotes the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bounce_address[Bounce Address] used for the `Return-Path` SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional).

As emails are used for recovering usernames and passwords it's recommended to use SSL or TLS, especially if the SMTP server is on an external network.
To enable SSL click on `Enable SSL` or to enable TLS click on `Enable TLS`.
You will most likely also need to change the `Port` (the default port for SSL/TLS is 465).

If your SMTP server requires authentication click on `Enable Authentication` and insert the `Username` and `Password`. The value of the `Password` field can refer a value from an external <<_vault-administration,vault>>.

Commit message:

Converting Admin Console to Configuring Realms chapter including Realm Keys from Authentication chapter

server_admin/topics/realms/email.adoc, after:

[[_email]]

= Configuring email for a realm

{project_name} sends emails to users to verify their email addresses, when they forget their passwords, or when an administrator needs to receive notifications about a server event. To enable {project_name} to send emails, you provide {project_name} with your SMTP server settings.

.Procedure

. Click *Realm Settings* in the menu.

. Click the *Email* tab.
+
.Email Tab
image:{project_images}/email-tab.png[Email Tab]

. Fill in the fields and toggle the switches as needed.
+
Host::
  *Host* denotes the SMTP server hostname used for sending emails.

Port::
  *Port* denotes the SMTP server port.

From::
  *From* denotes the address used for the *From* SMTP-Header for the emails sent.

From Display Name::
  *From Display Name* allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain *From* email address will be displayed in email clients.

Reply To::
  *Reply To* denotes the address used for the *Reply-To* SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional). If not set the plain *From* email address will be used.

Reply To Display Name::
  *Reply To Display Name* allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain *Reply To* email address will be displayed.

Envelope From::
  *Envelope From* denotes the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bounce_address[Bounce Address] used for the *Return-Path* SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional).

Enable SSL and Enable StartTSL::
  Toggle one of these switches to *ON* to support sending emails for recovering usernames and passwords, especially if the SMTP server is on an external network. You will most likely need to change the *Port* to 465, the default port for SSL/TLS.

Enable Authentication::
  Set this switch to *ON* if your SMTP server requires authentication. When prompted, supply the *Username* and *Password*. The value of the *Password* field can refer a value from an external <<_vault-administration,vault>>.
