server_admin/topics/threat/admin.adoc, before:


=== Admin Endpoints and Console

The {project_name} administrative REST API and the web console are exposed by default on the same port as non-admin
usage. If access to the admin console is not needed externally, we recommend not exposing the admin endpoints on the
Internet.

This can be achieved either directly in {project_name} or with a proxy such as Apache or nginx.

For the proxy option please follow the documentation for the proxy. You need to control access to any requests
to `/auth/admin`.

To achieve this directly in {project_name} there are a few options. This document covers two options, IP restriction
and separate ports.

Once the admin console is no longer accessible on the frontend URL of Keycloak, you need to configure a fixed admin
URL in the default hostname provider.

==== IP Restriction

It is possible to restrict access to `/auth/admin` to only specific IP addresses.

The following example restricts access to `/auth/admin` to IP addresses in the range `10.0.0.1` to `10.0.0.255`.

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="{subsystem_undertow_xml_urn}">
    ...
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
        <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
            ...
            <filter-ref name="ipAccess"/>
        </host>
    </server>
    <filters>
        <expression-filter name="ipAccess" expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') -> ip-access-control(acl={'10.0.0.0/24 allow'})"/>
    </filters>
    ...
</subsystem>
----

Equivalent configuration using CLI commands:

[source,bash]
----
/subsystem=undertow/configuration=filter/expression-filter=ipAccess:add(,expression="path-prefix[/auth/admin] -> ip-access-control(acl={'10.0.0.0/24 allow'})")
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/filter-ref=ipAccess:add()
----

NOTE: For IP restriction if you are using a proxy it is important to configure it correctly to make sure {project_name}
receives the client IP address and not the proxy IP address

==== Port Restriction

It is possible to expose `/auth/admin` to a different port that is not exposed on the Internet.

The following example exposes `/auth/admin` on port `8444` while not permitting access with the default port `8443`.

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="{subsystem_undertow_xml_urn}">
    ...
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
        <https-listener name="https" socket-binding="https" security-realm="ApplicationRealm" enable-http2="true"/>
        <https-listener name="https-admin" socket-binding="https-admin" security-realm="ApplicationRealm" enable-http2="true"/>
        <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
            ...
            <filter-ref name="portAccess"/>
        </host>
    </server>
    <filters>
        <expression-filter name="portAccess" expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') and not equals(%p, 8444) -> response-code(403)"/>
    </filters>
    ...
</subsystem>

...

<socket-binding-group name="standard-sockets" default-interface="public" port-offset="${jboss.socket.binding.port-offset:0}">
    ...
    <socket-binding name="https" port="${jboss.https.port:8443}"/>
    <socket-binding name="https-admin" port="${jboss.https.port:8444}"/>
    ...
</socket-binding-group>
----

Equivalent configuration using CLI commands:

[source,bash]
----
/socket-binding-group=standard-sockets/socket-binding=https-admin/:add(port=8444)

/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/https-listener=https-admin:add(socket-binding=https-admin, security-realm=ApplicationRealm, enable-http2=true)

/subsystem=undertow/configuration=filter/expression-filter=portAccess:add(,expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') and not equals(%p, 8444) -> response-code(403)")
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/filter-ref=portAccess:add()
----

Commit message:

KEYCLOAK-15790 Security Threats rewrite (#57)
* KEYCLOAK-15790 Security Threats rewrite

* KEYCLOAK-15790 Post feedback changes

server_admin/topics/threat/admin.adoc, after:


=== Admin Endpoints and Console

{project_name} exposes the administrative REST API and the web console on the same port as non-administrative usage by default. Do not expose administrative endpoints externally if external access is not necessary. If you need to expose administrative endpoints externally, you can expose them directly in {project_name} or use a proxy.

To expose endpoints by using a proxy, consult the documentation for the proxy. You need to control access to requests to the `/auth/admin` endpoint.

Two options are available in {project_name} to expose endpoints directly, IP restriction and separate ports.

When the Admin Console becomes inaccessible on the frontend URL of {project_name}, configure a fixed admin URL in the default hostname provider.

==== IP Restriction

You can restrict access to `/auth/admin` to only specific IP addresses. For example, restrict access to `/auth/admin` to IP addresses in the range `10.0.0.1` to `10.0.0.255`.

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="{subsystem_undertow_xml_urn}">
    ...
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
        <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
            ...
            <filter-ref name="ipAccess"/>
        </host>
    </server>
    <filters>
        <expression-filter name="ipAccess" expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') -> ip-access-control(acl={'10.0.0.0/24 allow'})"/>
    </filters>
    ...
</subsystem>
----

You can also restrict access to specific IP addresses by using these CLI commands.:

[source,bash]
----
/subsystem=undertow/configuration=filter/expression-filter=ipAccess:add(,expression="path-prefix[/auth/admin] -> ip-access-control(acl={'10.0.0.0/24 allow'})")
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/filter-ref=ipAccess:add()
----

[NOTE]
====
For IP restriction using a proxy, configure the proxy to ensure {project_name} receives the client IP address and not the proxy IP address.
====

==== Port Restriction

You can expose `/auth/admin` to a different unexposed port. For example, expose `/auth/admin` on port `8444` and prevent access to the default port `8443`.

[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="{subsystem_undertow_xml_urn}">
    ...
    <server name="default-server">
        ...
        <https-listener name="https" socket-binding="https" security-realm="ApplicationRealm" enable-http2="true"/>
        <https-listener name="https-admin" socket-binding="https-admin" security-realm="ApplicationRealm" enable-http2="true"/>
        <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
            ...
            <filter-ref name="portAccess"/>
        </host>
    </server>
    <filters>
        <expression-filter name="portAccess" expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') and not equals(%p, 8444) -> response-code(403)"/>
    </filters>
    ...
</subsystem>

...

<socket-binding-group name="standard-sockets" default-interface="public" port-offset="${jboss.socket.binding.port-offset:0}">
    ...
    <socket-binding name="https" port="${jboss.https.port:8443}"/>
    <socket-binding name="https-admin" port="${jboss.https.port:8444}"/>
    ...
</socket-binding-group>
----

You can expose `/auth/admin` on port `8444` and prevent access to the default port `8443` by using CLI commands:

[source,bash]
----
/socket-binding-group=standard-sockets/socket-binding=https-admin/:add(port=8444)

/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/https-listener=https-admin:add(socket-binding=https-admin, security-realm=ApplicationRealm, enable-http2=true)

/subsystem=undertow/configuration=filter/expression-filter=portAccess:add(,expression="path-prefix('/auth/admin') and not equals(%p, 8444) -> response-code(403)")
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/filter-ref=portAccess:add()
----
